Add Telegram receiver docs (#1408)
rancher/rancher-docs: docs/reference-guides/monitoring-v2-configuration/receivers.md

By default, AlertManager provides native integration with some receivers, which are listed in [this section.](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/#receiver) All natively supported receivers are configurable through the Rancher UI.

> For notification mechaniTelegram not natively supported by AlertManager, integration is achieved using the [webhook receiver.](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/#webhook_config) A list of third-party drivers providing such integrations can be found [here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/integrations/#alertmanager-webhook-receiver) Access to these drivers, and their associated integrations, is provided through the Alerting Drivers app. Once enabled, configuring non-native receivers can also be done through the Rancher UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For notification mechanisms, such as Telegram, that are not natively supported by AlertManager, integration is achieved using the [webhook receiver.](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/#webhook_config) A list of third-party drivers providing such integrations can be found [here.](https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/integrations/#alertmanager-webhook-receiver) Access to these drivers, and their associated integrations, is provided through the Alerting Drivers app. Once enabled, configuring non-native receivers can also be done through the Rancher UI.
```

Currently the Rancher Alerting Drivers app provides access to the following integrations:

> - Microsoft Teams, based on the [prom2teams](https://github.com/idealista/prom2teams) driver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Microsoft Teams, based on the [prom2teams](https://github.com/idealista/prom2teams) driver.
```

> - Telegram, based on the [Sachet](https://github.com/messagebird/sachet) driver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Telegram, based on the [Sachet](https://github.com/messagebird/sachet) driver.
```

<!-- https://github.com/idealista/prom2teams -->

> ## Telegram

Reviewer: So information about Telegram completely replaces the current info about SMS? Is the SMS receiver no longer an option for certain Rancher versions?

Author: My reasoning behind replacing SMS with Telegram was the lack of examples showing SMS notifications. Both Telegram and SMS notifications are delivered using the same "Alerting Driver" called [sachet](https://github.com/messagebird/sachet/) that's not directly provided/supported by Rancher.

As to your question, someone more knowledgable than me from the O&B team could help confirm that. 

@alexandreLamarre @joshmeranda could you chime in? Do you think that replacing SMS with Telegram is reasonable?

@pankajsqe for visibility, since you test this stuff regularly.

Reviewer 2: SMS should still be supported for all versions of `rancher-alerting`. I'm in favor of switching the example to Telegram from SMS just in the sense that SMS is likely not the most used alerting system.

Reviewer: I don't think it's a good idea to replace the information on SMS, instead of adding a section on Telegram in alongside the section on SMS. We might later get somebody who needs the SMS instructions and wants to know why we removed them.

Author: OK. Let me work on having a separate section for Telegram and keep the SMS docs as-is.

Author: I have added the SMS documentation back to the docs. @martyav let me know your thougts.

<!-- https://github.com/messagebird/sachet -->

## Telegram

### Enabling the Telegram Receiver for Rancher Managed Clusters

The Telegram receiver is not a native receiver and must be enabled before it can be used. You can enable the Telegram receiver for a Rancher managed cluster by going to the Apps page and installing the rancher-alerting-drivers app with the Telegram option selected.

1. In the upper left corner, click **☰ > Cluster Management**.
1. On the **Clusters** page, go to the cluster where you want to install `rancher-alerting-drivers` and click **Explore**.
1. In the left navigation bar, click on **Apps**.
1. Click the **Alerting Drivers** app.
1. Click on **Install**.

> 1. In the page that opens next, make sure that **Enable SMS** checkbox is selected.

Author: Nope. It's actually "Enable SMS" checkbox. That's how it shows up in Rancher UI. And that is what helps Telegram work.

1. Take note of the namespace used as it will be required in a later step.

> ### Configure a PrometheusRule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Test the Configuration by Configuring a PrometheusRule
```

To test our Telegram setup, let's create a **PrometheusRule** that will fire all the time. 

:::caution NOTE
This rule is suggested only for the purpose of testing if Telegram alerts work as expected. Do not leave it on beyond the purpose of testing.
:::

1. Click on **Monitoring**.

> 2. Click on **Advanced**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on **Advanced**.
```

> 3. Click on **PrometheusRules** and click on **Create** to create a new rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on **PrometheusRules > Create**.
```
Docusaurus knows to render the numbering correctly, in case we move steps around or add/remove instructions

Author: Yep, I'm aware. But the IDE numbered them 1, 2, 3, etc. And, AFAIK, it's a markdown thing, not a Docusaurus thing. E.g.:
1. one
1. two
1. three

> 4. Select a namespace to place the rule in; name the rule appropriately; set the group name to `test`. We will use this value later while creating a **Route** in our **AlertManagerConfig**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select a namespace to place the rule in and name the rule appropriately. 
1. Set the group name to `test`. Use this value later when you create a **Route** in the **AlertManagerConfig**.
```

> 5. Under **Alerting Rules** click on **Add**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under **Alerting Rules** click **Add**.
```

> 6. Set an appropriate **Alert Name**.
> 7. Enter the following PromQL Expression - `vector(1)`. This will trigger alert immediately and continuously, and is only recommended to test things out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set an appropriate **Alert Name**.
1. To trigger the alert immediately and continuously, enter the following PromQL Expression: `vector(1)`.
```

> 8. Under **Labels** add a new one by clicking on **Add Label**. Entre the key `test` and value `alert`. This key-value pair will also be used later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under **Labels**, click **Add Label**. Enter the key `test` and value `alert`. This key-value pair will also be used later.
```

> ### Configure an AlertManagerConfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure an AlertManagerConfig
```

Still part of the testing procedure

> Next up, configure an **AlertManagerConfig** that will contain the **Receiver** and **Route** configuration to be used for the **PrometheusRule** we created above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure an **AlertManagerConfig** to contain the **Receiver** and **Route** configuration for the **PrometheusRule** created above:
```

> #### Create an AlertManagerConfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Click on **Monitoring**; then click on **Alerting**, and open **AlertManagerConfigs**.
> 2. Click on **Create**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on **Monitoring > Alerting**, and open **AlertManagerConfigs**.
1. Click **Create**
```

#### Create a Receiver in AlertManagerConfig

> 1. Choose a namespace from the dropdown and set an appropriate name. Click **Create**.
> 2. Open the newly created **AlertManagerConfig**. Look for three dots near the top-right of the page and click **Edit Config**.
> 3. Create a new Receiver by clicking **Add Receiver**.
> 4. Select **Webhook** from the list that shows up on the page **Create Receiver in AlertmanagerConfig**. 
> 5. Name the webhook. Then click **Add Webhook**. In the **Select Webhook Type** dropdown select **SMS**. This will automatically populate the **Target** field as `http://rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet.cattle-monitoring-system.svc:9876/alert`. If you installed the **Alerting Drivers** in a namespace other than `cattle-monitoring-system`, above URL will be reflect that. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose a namespace from the dropdown and set an appropriate name. 
1. Click **Create**.
1. Open the newly created **AlertManagerConfig** and click **⋮ > Edit Config**.
1. Click **Add Receiver**.
1. Select **Webhook** from the list on the **Create Receiver in AlertmanagerConfig** page. 
1. Name the webhook, and click **Add Webhook**. 
1. In the **Select Webhook Type** dropdown, select **SMS**. This will automatically populate the **Target** field as `http://rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet.cattle-monitoring-system.svc:9876/alert`. If you installed the **Alerting Drivers** in a namespace other than `cattle-monitoring-system`, the target URL will reflect that. 
```

SMS or Telegram?

> 6. Next click **Create** near the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create**.
```

#### Create a Route in AlertManagerConfig

> 1. After creating a **Receiver** once again look for the three dots near the top-right and click **Edit Config**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **⋮ > Edit Config**.
```

> 2. Click on **Route**.
> 3. In the dropdown, select the **Receiver** we just created in above step
> 4. In the **Labels to Group Alerts By** field, type `test`. We set this group name while creating **PrometheusRule** above.
> 5. Under the **Waiting and Intervals** set **Group Wait** value to `1s` and **Group Interval** value to `10s`. This will cause frequent alerts to be sent, if configured correctly. Change the values as appropriate.
> 6. Under **Matchers** click on **Add Matcher** and enter the **Name** as `test` and **Value** as `alert`. We used these values as **Label** in the **PrometheusRule** we created earlier. From the **Match Type** dropdown, select `MatchEqual`.
> 7. Click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Route**.
1. In the dropdown, select the **Receiver** you just created.
1. In the **Labels to Group Alerts By** field, type `test`.
1. Under **Waiting and Intervals**, set **Group Wait** to `1s` and **Group Interval** to `10s`. This triggers frequent alerts. Change the values as appropriate.
1. Under **Matchers** click **Add Matcher**. Enter `test` in the **Name** field and `alert` in the **Value** field. From the **Match Type** dropdown, select `MatchEqual`.
1. Click **Save**.
```

### Configuring the Telegram Receiver

> The Telegram receiver can be configured by updating the `rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet` ConfigMap in `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace. For example, the following is a minimal Telegram receiver configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the Telegram receiver by updating the `rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet` ConfigMap in the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace. For example, the following is a minimal Telegram receiver configuration:
```

```yaml
providers:
  telegram:
    token: <your-token-from-telegram>

receivers:
- name: 'cattle-monitoring-system/test-amc/prom2tel'
  provider: 'telegram'
  to:
    - '123456789'
```

> To obtain a Telegram token, you will have to setup a Telegram bot. Refer [this guide](https://core.telegram.org/bots/tutorial) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain a Telegram token, setup a Telegram bot. Refer to the [official Telegram guide](https://core.telegram.org/bots/tutorial) for details.
```

> When configuration is complete, add the receiver using the steps in [this section](#creating-receivers-in-the-rancher-ui). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you finish configuring the receiver, [add](#creating-receivers-in-the-rancher-ui) it. 
```

> Use the `<namespace>/<alertmanagerconfig-name>/<receiver-name>` as the name of the receiver above. The numeric `123456789` is the Telegram user ID you would like to send the notifications to. To find this Telegram ID, check out [this Telegram bot](https://telegram.me/userinfobot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name the receiver `<namespace>/<alertmanagerconfig-name>/<receiver-name>`. Enter `123456789` as the Telegram user ID to send the notifications to. To find this Telegram ID, check [the Telegram userinfo bot](https://telegram.me/userinfobot).
```
Is `12345678` just a placeholder? Why do they need to check the bot to find the ID if we told them which ID to use?

Author: > Is 12345678 just a placeholder?

Yes, it is.

> Why do they need to check the bot to find the ID if we told them which ID to use?

Because that's how the numeric user ID for your Telegram username can be found. I don't know of another way myself. It's also the one mentioned in [sachet example](https://github.com/messagebird/sachet/blob/master/examples/config.yaml#L121-L124).

> With above configuration in place, you should receive Telegram notifications on the user ID configured above. If you don't receive notifications, please check if there are any errors reported in the Pod for the Deployment `rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet` under `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should now receive Telegram notifications to the user ID. If you don't receive notifications, please check if there are any errors reported in the Pod for the Deployment `rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet` under the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace.
```

<!-- https://github.com/messagebird/sachet -->

## Telegram

### Enabling the Telegram Receiver for Rancher Managed Clusters

The Telegram receiver is not a native receiver. You must enable it before it can be used. You can enable the Telegram receiver for a Rancher-managed cluster by going to the **Apps** page and installing the `rancher-alerting-drivers` app with the **Telegram** option selected:

1. In the upper left corner, click **☰ > Cluster Management**.
1. On the **Clusters** page, go to the cluster where you want to install `rancher-alerting-drivers` and click **Explore**.
1. In the left navigation bar, click on **Apps**.
1. Click the **Alerting Drivers** app.
1. Click on **Install**.
1. In the page that opens next, make sure that **Enable SMS** checkbox is selected.
1. Take note of the namespace used as it will be required in a later step.

### Test the Configuration by Configuring a PrometheusRule

To test our Telegram setup, create a **PrometheusRule** that continuously raises alerts. 

:::caution NOTE
This rule is intended only to test if Telegram alerts work as expected. Do not leave it on after testing is completed.
:::

> 1. Click on **Monitoring**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the left navigation menu, click **Monitoring**.
```
Vale linter objects to "click on" -- missed on initial review passes, addressing now

> 1. Click on **Advanced**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Advanced**.
```

> 1. Click on **PrometheusRules > Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **PrometheusRules > Create**.
```

1. Select a namespace to place the rule in and name the rule appropriately. 
1. Set the group name to `test`. Use this value later when you create a **Route** in the **AlertManagerConfig**.
1. Under **Alerting Rules** click **Add**.
1. Set an appropriate **Alert Name**.
1. To trigger the alert immediately and continuously, enter the following PromQL Expression: `vector(1)`.
1. Under **Labels**, click **Add Label**. Enter the key `test` and value `alert`. This key-value pair will also be used later.

#### Configure an AlertManagerConfig

Configure an **AlertManagerConfig** to contain the **Receiver** and **Route** configuration for the **PrometheusRule** created above:

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Extra space

> 1. Click on **Monitoring > Alerting**, and open **AlertManagerConfigs**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Monitoring > Alerting**, and open **AlertManagerConfigs**.
```

1. Click **Route**.
1. In the dropdown, select the **Receiver** you just created.
1. In the **Labels to Group Alerts By** field, type `test`.
1. Under **Waiting and Intervals**, set **Group Wait** to `1s` and **Group Interval** to `10s`. This triggers frequent alerts. Change the values as appropriate.
1. Under **Matchers** click **Add Matcher**. Enter `test` in the **Name** field and `alert` in the **Value** field. From the **Match Type** dropdown, select `MatchEqual`.
1. Click **Save**.

### Configuring the Telegram Receiver

You can configure the Telegram receiver by updating the `rancher-alerting-drivers-sachet` ConfigMap in the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace. For example, the following is a minimal Telegram receiver configuration:

```yaml
providers:
  telegram:
    token: <your-token-from-telegram>

receivers:
- name: 'cattle-monitoring-system/test-amc/prom2tel'
  provider: 'telegram'
  to:
    - '123456789'
```

To obtain a Telegram token, setup a Telegram bot. Refer to the [official Telegram guide](https://core.telegram.org/bots/tutorial) for details.
After you finish configuring the receiver, [add](#creating-receivers-in-the-rancher-ui) it. 

> Name the receiver `<namespace>/<alertmanagerconfig-name>/<receiver-name>`. Enter `123456789` as the Telegram user ID to send the notifications to. To find this Telegram ID, check [the Telegram userinfo bot](https://telegram.me/userinfobot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name the receiver `<namespace>/<alertmanagerconfig-name>/<receiver-name>`. Enter `123456789` as a placeholder for the Telegram user ID to send the notifications to. To find your Telegram ID, check [the Telegram userinfo bot](https://telegram.me/userinfobot).
```
